NAME: EMMANUEL UTULU
MAT NO: ENG1804817
DEPARTMENT: COMPUTER ENGINEERING
COURSE: ECP 281	
DATE: 12th FEBRUARY, 2021
BETWEEN THE BRAIN OF A 9 YEAR OLD AND A SUPER COMPUTER WHICH ONE IS MORE POWERFUL, INTELLIGENT AND FASTER?
   A Computer is a programmable electronic device that is capable of manipulating data or information. It has the ability to store, retrieve and process data. Computer follows a set of instructions called programs in performing tasks.
   We will now look into my course mate’s ideas and contributions to the subject matter “Between the brain of a 9 year old and a super computer which one is more powerful, intelligent and faster?”
   According to them; the computer is faster in operation than a 9 year old because they are manufactured for a specific purpose and therefore they will be faster and more efficient in what they do. That is why we consult computers in most of our calculations to save time.
   Also the brain of a 9 year old is more intelligent than that of the computer because it is capable of adopting new ideas and methods to solve a problem whereas the computer is limited to that specific method. The reason for this limitation is because the computer’s operation is based only on the instructions (programs) given to it, but this is not a good reason because most computers are designed and programmed to learn and become versatile in their mode of operation. It is called Artificial Intelligence.
   Also, according to some of them; the computer is more powerful in the sense that a 9 year old can easily forget something but a computer cannot. Also a 9 year old is more powerful because it can do a lot of things but the computer cannot, it only does what it is programmed to do.
Someone also said the computer's memory is only fixed or occupied with a specific task to complete but the human's brain is occupied by series of different information and experiences such that the computer will be able to complete the task it was programmed to faster and more accurate than a 9 year old.
   Someone used a rhetorical question to give the reason why a 9 year old is more intelligent. He asked: Between a wise man and a person who comes to a wise man for knowledge who is wiser? Definitely it is the wise man and that is why the person seeks knowledge from him. Likewise in the context of a 9 year old and a computer, assuming the 9 year old is an adult human being; the 9 year old would be more intelligent because it is the human being that manufactures and programs a computer, it is based on the knowledge we have that we produce and program the computer. So how can what depends on us be more intelligent than us?
My Opinion
Humans  are still superior to computers in many ways. We perform tasks, make decisions, and solve problems based not just on our intelligence but on our massively parallel processing wetware — in abstract, what we like to call our instincts, our common sense, and perhaps most importantly, our life experiences. Computers can be programmed with vast libraries of information, but they can’t experience life the way we do. Humans possess traits we sometimes refer to (again, in the abstract) as creativity, imagination and inspiration. A person can write a poem, compose and play music, sing a song, create a painting or dream up a new invention. Computers can be programmed to replicate some of those tasks, but they don’t possess the innate ability to create the way humans do.

What do experts in artificial intelligence make of all this? Let’s start by defining what we mean by “smarter” or “more intelligent.” Intelligence has two components. One is the ability to learn, the other is the ability to solve problems. And in those areas, computers can be smarter than human
Computers are extremely fast, so when a task can be translated (by a human!) into an algorithm (a set of step-by-step instructions), a computer will typically accomplish it much more quickly and accurately than the average human. This kind of task includes mathematical calculations, and also repetitive tasks that humans quickly get bored by.

Humans are spectacular at several things, including pattern recognition, language abilities, and creative thinking. Computers are rapidly improving at pattern recognition, but most programs still don’t do as well as children. A classic example of pattern recognition is face recognition. We are capable of recognizing faces in a variety of contexts. We can even recognize faces that have aged, or are disguised, or are obscured by facial hair. Computers are not nearly as good as humans at such tasks.So computers are more powerful that humans when it comes to executing simple step-by-step instructions. Humans are more powerful than computers at tasks that are not easily broken into simple steps. The fields of computer science, artificial intelligence, and machine learning are aimed at breaking down problems into ‘byte-sized’ chunks that are ‘digestible’ by computers. So for now computers are informational babies — they cannot ‘cook’ for themselves
In conclusion I would say that the computer is capable of solving that it was programmed to faster than a 9 year old but a 9 year old but a 9 year old has the ability to create information without any external support so it is inherently smarter than a super computer.
